Aquion Aspen Energy Storage is globally recognized as the safest, cleanest, long life electricity battery storage technology available. Solar PV Partners deliver a diversity of both on and off-grid solar-plus-storage and diesel replacement renewable energy storage installations in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Portugal, Estonia, Czech Republic, Mexico and in Vermont, USA for both residential and commercial applications.

Dennis Garrison,Managing Director of Solar PV Partners commented, “_Our partner Innovacion Solar installed a 16.2kW Solar PV array with a 62kWhr Aquion Aspen Energy Storage system in Pedregal Cabo San Lucas, Mexico. The combination of solar generation plus electricity storage is intelligent energy management for our customer, who wants to be as grid independent as possible in their new family home.”_

Francisco Vargas, Operations Director of Innovacion Solar said, _“Our customer wanted the latest and cleanest energy storage system available. We worked with Solar PV Partners to configure the system specifications and are delighted with the performance of the Aquion Aspen batteries. We will now be looking to incorporate Aquion batteries for our projects going forward.”_

**Solar PV Partners** is an innovative renewable energy company that project manages Solar-plus-Storage installations, including most recently the largest UK PV installation of any education establishment, Sparsholt College. Solar PV Partners became first UK dealer of the Cradle to Cradle Certified Aquion Aspen Energy Storage Systems in the spring of 2015.

**Innovacion Solar,** founded in 2009**,** is the premier and most professional Solar PV installation company in the South Baja California region of Mexico. Innovacion Solar installations have proven to withstand strong hurricane winds of up to 195mph and are superb quality. Combining this with the best solar grid tied and battery back-up technology available sets them apart from any other in the region.  Solar-plus-Storage Pedregal Cabo San Lucas, Mexico installation location show below.
