**Streamline Power Ltd. announces the first of many UK residential installations of SimpliPhi Power energy storage systems in a small under stairs Harry Potter size cupboard.** The 6.88kWhr SimpliPhi Power battery installation with Victron inverter (pictured below) will provide overnight power for the Winchester family for 10 plus years.
  
 The two SimpliPhi Power PHI 3.4kWhr batteries, which do not contain cobalt or pose the risk of ‘thermal runaway’, are the safest, most efficient, compact and robust Lithium Ion battery available (based on U.S. Government extreme stress testing of 31 different battery technologies), are charged using excess power generated from the Winchester home owner’s rooftop solar panels during the daylight hours.
  
 Catherine Von Burg, CEO of SimpliPhi Power said, *“We are delighted that our PHI batteries were chosen by the Winchester family over any other Lithium chemistry, as they are non-toxic, safe and long lasting, making them an ideal home, school or commercial energy storage solution. We are working in partnership with Streamline Power to set up a SimpliPhi Power Dealer/Services network across the UK and Ireland for our stationary ESS products. Streamline Power is part of Solar PV Partners, a company who has demonstrated their ability to roll out new battery technologies in residential and commercial applications for off-grid and grid connected customers in the UK and Europe.”*  Streamline Power Limited, the green energy company based in Winchester, Hampshire is the UK/European distributor of SimpliPhi Power, a privately-owned California company that has been deploying energy storage systems (ESS) for fifteen years.
  
 Dennis Garrison,Managing Director of Streamline Power commented, “_The first UK residential installation of SimpliPhi Power ESS was completed in the home of an environmentally conscious customer in Winchester, UK this week by our parent company, Solar PV Partners. We researched the energy storage market to find the highest performing, longest life and safest Lithium battery made today and identified SimpliPhi Power as the ideal solution. We are very proud to be their partner in the UK and have already had very high demand for SimpliPhi energy storage systems in universities and commercial properties, as well as in residential.  We are also bringing our SimpliPhi Power high voltage grid services solution to the market later this year. SimpliPhi Power has proven its performance in some of the harshest environments on earth, won’t catch fire, is non-toxic, requires no maintenance and lasts longer than any other battery…It’s a Great Energy Storage Solution!”_
  
 **Streamline Power Limited,** [www.streamline-power.com](http://www.streamline-power.com) founded in 2009, is an innovative renewable energy design, distribution, project management and energy efficiency company, that has worked under contract with Innovate UK within the NHS on energy systems research and exported UK manufactured energy saving technology to Europe and Asia.  Streamline Power Ltd, a Winchester, UK based company delivers a diversity of both on and off-grid solar + storage and diesel replacement renewable energy storage installations with Solar PV Partners…Twitter <span style="text-decoration: underline;">@Solarpvpartners</span> in the United Kingdom and Ireland and with other partners across Europe and in various African countries.
  
 **SimpliPhi Power LLC,** [www.simpliphi-power.com](http://www.simpliphi-power.com) founded in 2002 designs and manufactures award-winning clean energy storage and management systems that utilize lithium ferrous phosphate chemistry. Founded originally as LibertyPak/Optimized Energy Storage, California-based SimpliPhi Power combines non-toxic lithium ferrous phosphate chemistry with proprietary cell and battery architecture to create the most safe, reliable, durable and scalable on-demand power solutions available for the residential, commercial, military and film industries. Integral to all SimpliPhi solutions is a management system that further optimizes the lifetime performance and durability of its batteries. SimpliPhi Power storage system components are UL certified, and have been rigorously tested and deployed by the U.S. Army and Marine Corps. SimpliPhi Power on Twitter [@SimpliPhiPower](https://twitter.com/simpliphipower).
  
 Contact at SimpliPhi Power - Lisa Ann Pinkerton 408-806-9626   
 Technica Communications for SimpliPhi Power
