Solar PV Partners Limited, the UK renewable energy company, today announced the completion of the 633 kilowatt Solar PV installation at Sparsholt College in Hampshire, UK.

Dennis Garrison, Managing Director of Solar PV Partners Ltd, the Sparsholt College project developer and a UK/European dealer of Aquion Energy storage systems said: “We are proud to work with the visionary leadership team at Sparsholt College, developing and project managing the largest Solar PV installation in the UK at any institution of learning.  Spirt Solar, the award winning renewable installation company did an exceptional job, maximising the potential PV generation. Our partner Green Nation arranged the finance through a Power Purchase Agreement, which is providing a 25 year reduction on Sparsholt’s electricity costs”.  Sparsholt College just received the Green Business of the Year Award, at the Winchester Business Excellence Awards 2016.

Sparsholt College Principal Tim Jackson said: "I am delighted with the outcome of our partnership working with Solar PV Partners. The great inside knowledge which Solar PV Partners have, was instrumental in shaping our thinking and facilitating us in getting a great-value deal for installing rooftop Photovoltaic Panels, which have given us 630 kW of capacity generated from sunlight and a halving of the electricity cost for everything we can use from that source".

Commenting on the installation, Erica Charles, Managing Director of Spirit Solar, said “We were very proud to be chosen to work on this prestigious project with Solar PV Partners. There were many technical complexities to be overcome, and a demanding installation schedule but all went to plan and the system performance is well in line with expectations.

Solar PV Partners is an innovative renewable energy management group of partner companies based in the UK and operating globally, with customers in several European countries, the USA and Mexico. In addition to project management of Solar PV installations, Solar PV Partners are the first UK dealer of the Cradle to Cradle Certified Aquion Aspen Energy Storage Systems, recognized as the safest, cleanest, most durable, longest life electricity battery storage available on the planet.
